---
layout: post
title: Crush - contd. (Part 4)
excerpt: There was a distant chatter of people, probably on the platform or other compartments. Closer home, Rafaelo still could not hear even a breath. No shuffling of the feet, nor a sigh of boredom.
tags: [crush, suspense]
---

<i>[As the title hints, this is the fourth episode of a story. I would highly recommend you to start from the first episode <a href="https://shikha-aggarwal.github.io/2019-03-26-Crush/" class="post-read-more">here</a>, and follow it by the second part <a href="https://shikha-aggarwal.github.io/2019-04-02-Crush-Part-2/" class="post-read-more">here</a>, and if you are still interested, third <a href="https://shikha-aggarwal.github.io/2019-04-06-Crush-Part-3/" class="post-read-more">here</a>. But that is just my opinion.]</i>

There was a distant chatter of people, probably on the platform or other compartments. Closer home, Rafaelo still could not hear even a breath. No shuffling of the feet, nor a sigh of boredom. He would have been lot more sure if there had been some noise that he could wait on to go away. But in this situation, he didn’t know whether to attribute the lack of a closer noise source to the case that person on guard had merely gone to sleep.

Earlier he had felt air wafts from his right side; this meant he was on the left side of the compartment. Prudently, he quivered his left foot a bit. A keen observant eye would show some interest at this. He sensed nothing but stillness and muffled voices of the crowd at a distance. This meant that it was daytime and it was highly unlikely that if there was indeed someone guarding him, he’d be sleeping.

He waited for a few minutes and then some. Time slows down by quite a bit in situations like this. He had immense patience and he was not at all restless by the lack of information about his surroundings. He then showed a stronger movement in his left leg, followed by more wait … still nothing. Probably it was time to act.

Really, to act was nothing madcap. This was the most laid back sci-fi bit but it gave him a very surreal feeling to do it. This, was his life. Real life; not a movie. One of those things that you always associate with happening to somebody else. He moved his left hand in one swift move and pressed a button embedded on the underside of his right arm just below the shoulder. This was supposed to reflect the signals from a device which he hoped was in a bag nearby where all his belongings must have been gathered and hence needed almost zero battery to operate. He himself had found this discovery as a solution to his contained living. To convince his family, he had to get a doctor ported from Mexico who could perform such a surgery in secrecy. There was not a dearth of volunteers for testing the setup.

When satisfied, his dad had given a very reluctant agreement to his pursuing a doctorate in Computer Science in US, even though he did not understand why, on the condition that he was allowed to risk this only once. Rafaelo had worried — and he had very strong hunch about this — what if his own family organized a fake kidnap to bring him back? Things people have problems with. He knew they would do this for the sake of his benefit, the care came at the cost of his freedom.

Suddenly, he heard a noise close by. His first intention was to hold his breath but that would mean that he will soon have to expend it rapidly. He regulated his breath to a normal rhythm. He tried to not tense up, keeping his body limp.

***************************************************************

Jeena spent the next hour looking for things that she vaguely remembered from her previous search months ago that she had recalled many a times since then. Eventually, she got a phone number which belonged to someone. Would informing them alert the enemy or help his family?

She pressed the keys on her phone, and hesitated before pressing the call button. Would this help or make the things murkier still? Which side was she going to bet on?

She reasoned that he was already in a fix and she could not possibly put him in a more dire situation. Even the worst case was what it was right now. She put her thumb on the green dial icon.

Her reasoning was wrong.

***************************************************************

Back in Savoca, Sicily, a landline rang.

A harsh voice in the house shouted, “Somebody answer the damn phone — see if Lorenzo got the boy.”

“Haello? … Si … si … uh … “

“What is going on?” the voice boomed again.

“È una persona inglese che vende assicurazioni.” (It is an English person selling insurance.)

“Assicurazione? Eh? per cosa? Non ho bisogno di assicurazione. La mia banda è la mia assicurazione.” (Insurance? Huh? for what? I don’t need insurance. My gang is my insurance.)

“No madaem, we don’t need it. Si madam. No signora. No Amerrikan boy. You Amerikan? Aaaaa … Italiano? Madam, Italiano or Americano? Si. Si. Si. Bye madam … no. Uhh .. I .. uh .. don’t know … no no. Oh — Rafa? Si madam. Si. Si. No no no. Elli? Si.”

“Cosa è stato? (What was it?)”

“Travel insurance, sir.”

“Bloody Amerikans.”

About 80 kilometers away, some of Rafaelo’s cousins stopped the train, and after very minimalistic violence, rescued Rafaelo. They were elated to have him back amongst them and they drove him directly to a pub. He felt he was home there as well.

By the time he got home, a party was organized at his home to welcome him back. He kissed his mom and hugged his dad. The whole thing, the happiness around him, convinced his gut that the attack might have been orchestrated by his own family than the Cigar family. He would possibly never know though, he will never ask. No one will ever answer him. His elder brothers had treated him as a kid as much as his parents. His story was much like the much touted story in Hollywood about the famous family, but he was hellbent on ensuring that the ending would be quite different.

He went to sleep thinking what he can engage himself in while he was here. Should he try extricating himself out again? Or should he cave in and make the best out of whatever is possible here? To what extent should he spend his energy on things that should be a given?

It was gnawing him from inside that his own family had staged the whole kidnapping episode to bring him back. He was almost sure of this. People had been eerily quiet about the whole thing. It was bugging him to no end that they did not understand his choice of life. He had tried to be as mature as he could be, but they did not give him any allowances. The only option he was left with was either to run away — which he knew would definitely put his life into danger, but at least be free for as long as he could. The other obstacle was of course that he would be tracked down and forcibly brought back in no time. So, really the other option was to just live here under their eyes and do whatever he could manage. His brain was scattered all over the place, not wanting to settle for anything.

Unknown to him, late in night, in the cold-stone foyer downstairs, a landline phone sitting on a mantle sent out a shrill ringing. Because of internet services being provided by telecom industries in conjunction with their landline plans, most households still had those. The yellow pages maintained by the Central Telecom Authority of Italy had proved to be inordinately easy to access.

“Haello? … Si … si … uh …”

“no no no no madam — no boy. You Amerikan ah? No signora, no insurance. Si.” and the receiver was slammed down to make the point clearer still. To the world this side and the other side of the phone, it was clear that insurance was a no-go in these parts of the world.

As soon as the staff turned away, the phone rang again.

“Rafaelo? Who are you?”

“No madaem, we don’t need it. Si madam. No signora. No Amerrikan boy. You Amerikan? Oh — Rafaelo madam? Si madam. Si. Kidnap? Si.”

The caller had his attention.

The next morning, Rafaelo stepped down the stone stairwell and found a meeting in session. All his 6 brothers and his dad sat pensively along with 5–7 of the family confidants. He bypassed it and tried to squeeze himself out towards the kitchen. His dad roared, “Mr. Prince, if you would care to join us.”

A night’s sleep had done little to calm his nerves. “I’ll pass,” he replied curtly.

“Now.”

He stood in the corner he occupied. Others moved their chairs to allow the Father’s gaze direct line of access to his son. Rafael listened intently. From the other room, he heard a sob. It was his mom! Whatever had happened, this was not the moment to be taken slightly. He had to put up with the most serious gangster issues which, in his head, seemed like a standup comedy of the darkest kind.

His dad asked, “Do you wish to tell us anything?”

“Umm — do you wish to tell me anything?” he said, mustering up the courage in front of everyone. He thought everyone would know what he meant.

“What did you do in Amerika?”

Rafaelo crossed his arms and rolled his eyes at the ceiling murmuring nothing, but it was for the effect.

“Answer me.”

“I was pursuing a doctorate in Computer Science.”

“That is what you said you were going to do. But what did you actually do?”

He kept silent. What were they getting at?

“You destroy your family’s reputation. You put it in mud.”

“Dad, can you stop sounding like a gangster? What are you talking about?”

“He asks what I am talking about as if he doesn’t know.”

“Dad again, no one is filming you. Know what?”

“You get that girl to be a mom.”

“What?”

“She has your child so that we cannot keep you here. That is what you do there!”

“Excuse me?”

The father’s breath grew rapid and short thinking about it. His eldest brother rushed to him and placed his hand on his shoulder and said to Rafaelo, “What is done is done. There is no going back. It is true that we did not expect this from you Rafa. We showed belief in you. But you dishonor us.”

“Jeez -”

“You dishonor us, but we must deal with it. You will go back to America and bear that child. Bring the child back along with your wife, Jeena. We will welcome them with love.”

Rafael could swear that his ears were bleeding at the moment. He could vaguely put the picture together. What he gathered was that there was some sort of miscommunication; that Jeena had tried to alert them about his kidnapping or something. He had two options now: to save his face by clearing the air around the whole episode or to live his life with a bit of a tainted face.

He snickered. To live an honorable life at the cost of doing what you want to do; or to live a life doing what you want to do by disappointing those who were closest to him?

***************************************************************

He could not figure out the right answer on his flight back to America.

************
