---
layout: post
title: Crush - contd. (Part 2)
excerpt: The sun had woken up lazily that day — it was Fall and not much to do during the day anyway. Upon rising, it gazed into a corner room on seventh floor of the Azure colored building on Thomas boulevard.
tags: [crush, suspense]
---
<i>[As the title hints, this is a continued part of a story. First part can be found <a href="https://shikha-aggarwal.github.io/2019-03-26-Crush/" class="post-read-more">here</a>.]</i>

The sun had woken up lazily that day — it was Fall and not much to do during the day anyway. Upon rising, it gazed into a corner room on seventh floor of the Azure colored building on Thomas boulevard. The sunlight fell on the bed and looked fixedly at the blanket covering what could potentially be a face belonging to a blooming body with appropriately protruding calf muscles. Within a few minutes, the body stirred and woke up. Not much to do during the day, it thought, and dozed off. About 45 minutes later, his phone rang.

He jumped out of bed and grabbed his phone from the study table next to the window from which the sun had tried to wake him up earlier. One of the things that irked him most since joining the PhD program was the fact that his advisor felt surprisingly lax about the policy to call him on his cellphone and ask him to come to office.

The first time it happened, he rushed to his office and Prof. Matoon gleefully displayed his set of teeth and said, “Oh good, you are here Rafael. Right at the time I needed someone … so, I cannot figure why I cannot edit this Word document. Umm — do you mind taking a look?” Rafael was not amused if this was a joke — and it was all good because it wasn’t a joke. Since then, he would get a call at practically any hour of the day — weekdays, or weekends. No grad student worth their salt wants to give an impression to their advisor that they were not working at any hour of their living life.

Gradually, like most grad students, he found ways to fake it. From the data of calls he had received thus far, he concluded that Prof. Matoon stopped working at 7:30 pm and laid low till 7 am. So, he had to fit all his life outside work in those hours. Today, he had tried to test the rule by sleeping in till late — and voila! the phone rang.

He hit the accept button and the phone slipped out of his hand and flung itself onto the bed. Rafael scampered and retrieved the phone. There was a high-pitched female sound on the other end that sounded very familiar. He knew he had listened to it many times but couldn’t place a face to it. She was saying something … “I haven’t eaten anything in so long … I will faint if I don’t eat …” maybe the call was not intended for him and he should notify the person? He said, “eh -” The female continued, “I think this whole Rafael thing is weighing on my mind …” Oh, it was him she had meant to call. “… and I am super distracted and not able to decide what I should eat. I am kinda nervous — what do I tell him, how do I ask him?” Or was it a mistake?

The voice stopped talking and he jumped at the opportunity to contribute towards the contribution, “Err — em, hi, this is Rafael.”

She hung up. He was discombobulated. Who was she? And ask him what?

Minutes later, his phone rang and it was Prof. Matoon calling to see if Rafael was around to help him with the font in his Excel sheet. He rushed out grabbing a jacket. Riding his bike at astronomical speed, he made a pit stop at Meijer to grab a bunch of bananas and a refrigerated Starbucks frappuccino for his brunch later.

When he came out, sure enough, his bike was gone. Damn it, he thought. It was not a very expensive bike (he had picked it up for $30 on Craigslist in his first year; it was rusted at many places than even an ascetic bike would care for), but it was the inconvenience of it all that irked him. He stood there eating a banana much like a certain female had done at almost the same spot 20 minutes ago, though he didn’t know. He looked at a grocery bag at the center of entrance as if it was no one’s business.

To think of the bike again, he amused himself with the idea that it was more of a university heirloom that was being passed on from generation to generation. It is only for the best that it is going to find a new owner. He considered taking the bus to his lab but decided to walk instead as he was going to be late in either case. Buses in this university town were as reliable as blind dates. He started walking towards the department that was a 20 minute walk away.

He never got there.

************

When the police knocked on the front door, Jeena heard Neeta rush through the living room and quickly unlock the door. “Did you find her?” she asked someone.

“Ma’am, we would like to remind you that as per Federal law, you have the right to keep quiet — but we would like to ask if you know where Miss Jeena Adams is at the moment?”

“I — err .. no.”

“We would like to search your place.”

“Sorry? What? Why?”

“Miss Adams phone was turned on a few minutes ago and it was traced to this location.”

Realizing that any inaction might lead to more hassle for Neeta, Jeena opened the door slowly. Two police officers in black uniform stood with papers in their hands. Neeta stared unbelievingly.

“What -” she started, but checked herself in front of the officers. “What are you doing here?” She ran towards her and hugged her. “I was so scared — we all have been looking for you throughout the day!”

Jeena laughed, “I was just sleeping! Didn’t know it could cause such a disheavel — I am really sorry, and you too officers …”

“Umm -” Neeta said.

The police officer was hardly satisfied with this ending that Jeena was keen to draw curtains on. “Ma’am, do you know Mr. Rafael Lynx is missing since this afternoon?”

Jeena jumped out of her skin. On being questioned by the officer, she narrated the whole story of the morning before. The other officer was busy taking notes. She told them how after her deadline she was hungry and muddled, the phone call to Rafael, her embarrassment, how she was super tired to go back home and so just walked to Jeena’s house to sleep, the messy room leading to her sleeping in her roommate’s room. They both then explained to the officer why she had access to her key (Neeta had left a copy with her because she used to forget her keys inside and accidently get locked out. After 3 times, she just gave her a copy. She trusted her most and Neeta had used the key to get a quick meal out of her refrigerator now and then, ice creams and home made sweets when she would get back from her vacations).

“So, you were at Meijer when you called Mr. Lynx?”

“Yes I was.”

“That was the last call registered from his phone. Do you confirm that if was Rafael who answered your call?”

Jeena knit her brows. “I don’t know — I just heard one sentence — it was some hesitation and then he said, ‘this is Rafael.’”

“Did anything stand out from the way he said it?”

“I don’t remember.”

“Miss Adams, do you have any information where he might be?”

“No.”

“Do you have any other information that you think might be useful for us?”

“Cannot think of anything.”

“Thank you, Miss Adams. We will reach out to you if we need more information. You ladies have a good night.” He turned and left.

Jeena enveloped herself in a hug and started massaging her arms. She felt chilly. Jeena and Neeta stared at each other.

“Shit man, is this a movie or something? What is going on?” Jeena said.

“No idea man.” Neeta said placing her arm around Jeena and leading her to the couch. She gave her the throw and adjusted the temperature on thermostat. “All I know is that Rafael disappeared this afternoon. I hope he too is sleeping at a friend’s place. It’s been one long day.”

“Err … Neeta …”

“Yes?” Neeta made her way to kitchen to make a cup of coffee for both of them.

“I might know something more about Rafael.”

Neeta stopped in her tracks. She turned and looked at Jeena bewildered and untrustingly.

************

<i>Read the next part <a href="https://shikha-aggarwal.github.io/2019-04-06-Crush-Part-3/" class="post-read-more">here</a>.</i>
