---
layout: post
title: Crush - contd. (Part 3)
excerpt: When Rafaelo regained consciousness, he felt an acute pain in his left arm. He was careful not to instinctively grab it. The whole process came to him so naturally, seamlessly.
tags: [crush, suspense]
---
<i>[As the title hints, this is a continued part of a story. First part can be found <a href="https://shikha-aggarwal.github.io/2019-03-26-Crush/" class="post-read-more">here</a> and second <a href="https://shikha-aggarwal.github.io/2019-04-02-Crush-Part-2/" class="post-read-more">here</a>.]</i>

When Rafaelo regained consciousness, he felt an acute pain in his left arm. He was careful not to instinctively grab it. The whole process came to him so naturally, seamlessly. This is what training does to you: you can naturalize things that seem so outlandish at first. In US, it was running after a ball hit by a batter and yelling in exultation after doing so, or sitting among thousands upon thousands of people cheering a person doing just that. At home, it was driving through the intense traffic without noticing it anymore.

This too, the so called kidnapping, unknown to the world that he had left behind — he had been trained and prepared for. He was least worried about what was happening to him at the moment as he knew exactly how it was going to end. Well, most likely. It was more painful to know that he was never going back to the University. What he wasn’t prepared for was that his sojourn in US would be as short.

He felt a cloth enveloping his face, probably tied at his neck he thought. There’s hardly been any innovation in the modus operandi of these mafia groups. Police has all these sophisticated labs to develop combative technologies like drones and drone detectors, and still groups manage their leader’s escapes by digging underground tunnels. He mutely scoffed at the state of affairs.

Without thinking twice about what he was about to do, he carefully opened his eyes to stare into pitch darkness. He dare not move; it was anyone’s guess who else was sharing the space with him, who was guarding him wherever he was. In cases like this, it was all a matter of lying low until you are sure. He tried to dilate his eyes, adjusting them to the darkness, but nothing helped. It smelled funny — a mix of medicinal and dung smells. As per his training, he was supposed to keep still until he could figure where he was or at least, until he was sure that there was no one around.

He had laughed at the absurdity of the situation so many times. He was living two entirely distinctive lives — each utterly oblivious to the other. No one person fell in the intersection of his two worlds. Like death, he knew this would happen one day, and would go stoic and grave thinking about it; but when the moment was here, finally here, it felt like — this too, shall pass. He was not panicking. Human mind is weirdly lethargic.

From the motion of the vehicle, it seemed as if he was on a train. Was he under a seat? Or was he kept on top shelf as of a luggage? It was a very hard surface under him, and suddenly he felt cold on his back. He quickly tried to focus on something else — listening to the sound around him. It was eerily quiet. Was he traveling in one of those private chambers in a train compartment? Could he be in a luggage car?

The vehicle came to a halt. He strained his ears to listen; in the absence of any rattling, this was a good moment to decide when to act.

*******************

“What are you talking about Jeena? Why didn’t you say anything when that policeman was asking you?” Neeta asked pointing at a poster that Jeena found very distasteful — a grinning girl standing in front of a guy with messed up hair, both looking coyly at the viewer with “v. dickled” written across the front. But that was the general direction the police car had arrived from and hence the direction she assumed they would be going back at the moment.

“I couldn’t have! You know how I like Rafaelo and naturally, I tried to find out more about him online. He was absent from regular social media and one night, I was bored -”

“Stop with the prattle Jeena! What did you find out?”

“… I am coming to that. I am not 100% sure — I just have a hunch.”

“ … that?”

“That he is from Italy and he might be involved in some sort of family feud between mafia groups.”

Neeta considered what she had heard and decided to continue to make coffee for her friend. She walked to the stove.

“What else? How have you been doing? How was your deadline?” she asked.

“No, I know you won’t believe me Jeena. But I can show you something that will convince you. I am not sure though.”

“I thought so -”

“Neeta, you do realize that my work is specialization in Security. One night I was bored and started searching for him on the dark web search engine. You know things there — you find something one day, and you will not find a trace the next. Which is why I cannot show you the pages I read again. I came across this page briefly that was kind of a family tree. It had certain segments in different colors to show factions that are not at peace. I thought it was part of a movie plot!”

“You don’t say!”

“Neeta, I am dead scared. I am. Is he going to be alright? I mean, I know we didn’t have anything going on — but seriously to know someone whose life is that, it is giving me the creeps of a lifetime.”

“Keep your head down Jeena. If anything you are saying is true, I am scared to even talk now. Who knows what kind of a thing are they doing to monitor anyone.”

Jeena bit her lower lip. She seemed to process something in her head and then said, “We should go there!”

Neeta was alarmed. Obviously. “Go where and do what? This is not a movie — good people might not come out alive, gurl.” She joked, because she knew the other couldn’t be serious. Only that she was.

“I will figure out the where part.”

“Jeena, no. Do not even think about it! You are out of your mind.”

“I know it sounds bizarre — but think about it. This is actually happening to someone — ”

“Yes, and let police take care of it!”

“Blargh! A damn they will. They will take ages to investigate and know what really happened … then there might be the whole red tape because of the international nature of the case,” she said air-quoting the last part.

“And you think that somehow you will be able to help him when our police … the US police … cannot?”

“I have the power of internet. The connectivity.”

“Fine. Do anything you want online. Just don’t go there.”

Jeena leapt out of the couch and into Neeta’s room to get her laptop.

“Aye! Don’t use my laptop. I don’t want to be implicated in all this huh?”

Jeena looked at her giving a look that meant that she was acting ridiculous. She raised her right index finger and said, “One. Of course, ‘they’ know you need not be the owner of laptop to use it. Two. You want to ditch your friend here?”

“Don’t give me that shit. Just don’t use my laptop.”

She didn’t listen. Her friend was curious and sat by her to see what she was doing.

“Where are you going to start?”

“By installing the Tor browser.”

“You are so fussy. Just use this one na — not like I use Explorer.”

“No dummy. It is not that. Tor works by routing traffic through different computers all over the world so it is impossible to trace the request down.”

Neeta looked at her and shook her head. She didn’t need to know the technicalities. “What are you trying to do?”

“First of all, notify his family I suppose.”

“Exactly how?”

“I don’t know.”

************

<i>Read the next and final part <a href="https://shikha-aggarwal.github.io/2019-04-11-Crush-Part-4/" class="post-read-more">here</a>.</i>
