---
layout: post
title: The Letter
tags: [story, trees]
---

Avni got up early that Saturday morning in November when San Francisco was still making up its mind to stay blanketed in fog or be sunny. Nothing indicated that her life would be thrusted on television by today evening and the whole world was going to be thrust into a calamity. For now, she craned her neck out of the covers to check the seed tray by her window. No sprouts yet! Her head slumped back into the pillow. This was dismal. She had taken a liking to gardening in her room last year after a friend had gifted the guests 5 indoor plants each on her baby shower. Within the first two weeks, the leaves of rose plant turned brown at the tips prompting Avni to water it diligently in both mornings and evenings. But it turned golden brown regardless. The more she cared for it, the worse it got. Soon, she declared it dead. A friend joked that drowning the plant instead, and gifting it an instant death would have been more humane. The other four plants had survived because their pots had holes at the bottom and drained out excess water. Avni's confidence gathered incrementally with each plant surviving another day and would go down considerably when any of them turned droopy. She had then sown the seeds in a starter tray – it was a joy to see those green buds pop up in the brown! Healthy plants were transferred to pots. Some of them had survived. This was her third starter tray. That the whole tray of different kind of seeds had not sprouted at all, made her nervous. 

It was annoying to wake up to this feeling in the morning. Besides, there was that uncomfortable feeling about the other plants in her room – it seemed they did not flutter anymore. She curled her legs, stretched them upwards, hurled the comforter toward the foot of the bed and jumped out of the bed.

Less than an hour later, she drove up her Honda to the mouth of the French stream trail in Oakland. There was a drab, cool air – it did not carry much of the forest perfume. She took in a long breath searching for freshness but the dry air hit her throat: a mix of camp fire and dust. An elderly couple went by as she stretched near the wooden fence. She started her run down the familiar route ambling through the shrubs at first that soon turned thicker and bigger. The Redwoods were few and far between. It was the only kind of the tree she could identify and it didn’t matter. It was blissful to be in the midst of trees and it was not necessary to know their names to be so happy among them! Today, it seemed more still, extra quiet ... as if something invisible enveloped the air, even though it _looked_ the same. This reminded her of the unsprouted seeds in her bedroom window.

She arrived at the bifurcation where the left sign indicated the French stream. Nothing marked the path that angled towards right. Last time she had taken this path and had found a perfectly well-formed path there, just extremely empty. In fact, she had seen only one lady in the whole stretch till the path merged with another trail. She had heard a very distinct squeak last time ... like opening of a door in a Hobbit movie - an old, heavy wooden door with rusting hinges - but forgot to look it up later. She remembered thinking that she had heard it earlier too when she was in the Redwoods. That did not make it less bizarre to hear it from so up the trees. It seemed like an oddity, a trick by her brain. It had to be a bird – she didn’t know just which one.

Taking that path again, a completely empty trail stretched in front of her. Amid the tallest trees, she could hear her own steps crushing the dried leaves, twigs, and coarse sand. She heard herself breathing. Time slowed down and she felt the calmness descend on her. She smiled and was about to gather more speed when there was an unmistaken creaking sound of a heavy wooden door with rusting hinges. Was it a bird or a tree that did that? She slowed down into a walk and then halted.

She heard a new sound ... a click. It could have been a branch hitting a trunk. She felt blood drain from her fingertips and going colder – it felt orchestrated. It was so vivid! She waited for more sound. There was none. No person nearby. She stool still with her tummy clenched and fingers coiled in a fist. A few moments passed. Then tuk-tuk-tuk. A bird tapped its beak on a trunk. She spotted it atop a branch and let out her breath and unclenched her fists. She extended a step in the direction of the sound, off the paved trail; her eyes staring at the tips of trees. No movement. Nothing. Absolute stillness. Tuk-tuk-tuk. Then she searched the grounds, squinting hard. She turned to go back and corner of her eye caught something. A lump choked her throat.

On her right, amid the untrimmed, wild grass laid an off-white rectangular postcard. It did not belong to its environment. Maybe it blew-in from some trash? She started walking over the grass, away from her set path and towards the card. The clearer she saw it, the more she was convinced that it was not trash. It was written in a beautiful curving calligraphy in green ink. She looked around and still there was no one.

Avni picked it up and ran back blindly to the path. After getting to the trail, she kept running in the direction of the original trail. The trees were not falling and no one trying to harm her. She glanced at the postcard and read “for millions” in the middle of the text. She looked up at the path where it met the original. A man was running along with his dog and then she hid the card on her right. She furtively looked at it and then stopped. Taking a long breath, she calmed herself down. It seemed like a regular card, one of very good quality. It had a self-embossed root pattern at the bottom. She flipped it over and it was addressed to “Humans.” Weird. Another guy walked by. She did not deem it too unreasonable to carry a postcard with her on the trail and so started reading the text.

“Hi again Homo sapiens,
Our network throughout the world has not observed any preparations on your end. All other kinds of fauna were also informed a week ago and are trying to save whatever they can claim any of us. There is some panic but it is being dealt with: they don’t have a choice. Having looked over you for millions of years, we should not have to tell you that we do care about you and are concerned about the lack of plans on your end. It is being reported that you are trying to sow more seeds and different kind of seeds from your seed banks. It is useless, we are not going to change our minds.
Good luck,
Flora.”

She felt half anxious and half amused and ran back to her car. There she rang up Sumi and told her about the card. She laughed out loud and Avni understood why but she was not convinced that this was a joke. It had to do with the dead seeds in her window and the stillness of the plants in her room.

[to be continued ..]
