---
layout: post
title: The Guide
subtitle: By R. K. Narayan
# bigimg: /img/path.jpg
tags: [book review]
---

The guide is an engaging tale that follows the life of Raju through his childhood, death of his father, taking over his business, finding his own feet as a guide, and then squandering his life and relations by falling in love with a girl, his rise and fall again, and eventually becoming a holy man.

Did this description pique or dull your enthusiasm about the book? What makes a story interesting? As far as I can see, there is nothing new in the story line and yet I could not put the book down. Is it just the art of telling the story then? Being a Wodehouse enthusiast, I used to put a lot of emphasis on language, but RK Narayan creates a wonder with very simple language, and without an intriguing word play. Taking a cue from this, I would be reading the elements and basics of story-writing. If you have any suggestions for this, please let me know.

Coming back to the book, it reflects the Indian society from 60s and wraps within the concerns from the period like drought, societal backlash against a woman interested in a career – particularly in dancing, general acceptance and observation of patriarchal norms, and so on. The story is well ahead of its time as the female lead takes it upon herself to further her career, than be dominated by men or her husband. But this does not come without the guilt. She wants to plead to her husband to take her back in after he has left her because she takes up dancing.

The struggle depicted is of an obstinate man who scrambles to cope with the vagaries of life, one who wishes and hopes for results instead of working for them; an adult behaving like a teenager who refuses to accept advice and neglects all his relationships, and lives by the rule: “Words have a knack for breeding more words, whereas laughter, a deafening, roaring laughter, has a knack for swallowing everything up.” He refuses to engage in meaningful discussions, listen to others’ concerns, and engages in breeding his unpalatable hunger for money and status. He declines to acknowledge others’ problems beyond his own, and others’ presence beyond himself. But eventually, when he is left alone – abandoned by all, he is able to reprieve himself and finds solace in doing something for the sake of others.

A very Indian novel, it contains colorful description of its culture and people and tensions. It includes subtle humor on people’s religious beliefs that can be called blatant optimism too. Loved it!
